Title: Control Software
Date: 2014-07-12
Author: Adam
Tags: software

Last night we started fleshing out the design for the control software. The
bulk of it will be written in Python, because we're both familiar with the
language and it has good bindings to libFTDI and OpenCV.

First I sketched out an outline of the overall design:

![paper planning](images/software_plan.jpg)

We have a central 'Control' object which is responsible for tying everything
together, and externally we'll use [supervisord](http://supervisord.org/) to
start and manage it. It starts an API and Tracking process via multiprocessing,
and loads up all the Patterns and Sinks it knows about and waits for
instructions.

The HTTP API is in a separate process and uses the wonderful
[Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) library, with a Queue to pass commands back to
the Control process. The API receives (command, value) pairs from HTTP POST
requests, checks the authentication against the settings, then sends the
command on. Later we'll probably extend this to also return data about the
current state of the system, for example which Patterns are available.


The Tracking process will use [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/) to detect people in
the grid, estimate the position of their feet in the 2d (top-down) grid via
projective transforms, assign each person a unique number and keep track of
them for as long as they remain in the grid. This is probably going to be one
of the more challenging components to write! It passes this data back to the
Control process and the Patterns via a proxied dict through a multiprocessing
Manager object.

Patterns and Sinks are similar. Both have their own package for all the pattern
or sink files, a top level class to inherit from, and register themselves with
the system using a decorator. For Patterns, the decorator also allows a
configuration to be registered, so that for example the maze pattern can offer
one- or two-player patterns. Patterns will have an update() method called
which returns a full grid state frame (a 7x7 boolean array) and a time to
display the frame for. Sinks have update(state) called with the state from a
pattern, and somehow output that pattern, for example to the real hardware on
the grid.

![source code screenshot](/images/code_screenshot.png)

Then I got coding. In a few hours and 230 lines of Python we now have a
complete working barebones system, with Control implemented, a simple API that
can load patterns and sinks, the pattern and sink registration and loading
system, settings management, logging and a few other bits. Tracking is still an
empty shell at the moment, and we'll be working on the Console sink before the
real hardware one (useful for debugging). Patterns are going to come later too,
but at least they have something to slot into now. Eventually we'll be adding
an Android app to the mix which uses the API for remote control, but that is
pretty far down the to-do list!
